This here is a 5.5 watt OSRAM LED
bulb it's a bayonet style bulb
and it's been in service for a couple of years
now it's been on an automated timer that goes on
every night for a couple hours and unfortunately
it no longer works so I thought I'd try and fix it
so as is usual with LED bulbs the diffuser is made
of plastic so I think I can just lever it off like
this and after doing that for a while it came
loose like this and we can see the diffuser is
adhesived in with what looks like silicone on
these tabs here and the diffuser is indeed made
of plastic because it's all bendy now looking
at this aluminium core PCB we can see there's
eight LEDs on board and if we look closely at them
we can see that there's three pieces of silicon
in each chip so these are probably nine and a bit
forward voltage LEDs which allows them to use so
few LED packages in probably what operates at
a reasonably high voltage and we can see that
these LEDs are connected to rather large copper
areas on the PCB which presumably helps with
heat dissipation although interestingly they
don't use the same side of the LED package it's
a so i'd imagine some of these would fail before
the others but let's test them to see whether or
not they're good they don't have the black spot
of death on them so i think they might be good
and testing this first one it's probably
around the wrong way this one's good yep
nice warm white this one's
good this one's good good good
and round the other way this one's good this
one's good and this one's good so they're all good
so it's probably a problem with the power supply
so let me get this silicone out of the way
and i'm not quite sure how to get this
aluminium board out it's uh it's really
wedged in there they seem to have press fit
it into the aluminium uh case of the LED thing
yeah so this thing was pretty difficult to get
out so i fast forwarded it here and i ended up
having to just stuff a metal spudger in the side
and lever it out which actually broke the outer
plastic bit but i was just able to super glue
that back together and of course the bayonet style
contacts on the bottom we can just lever these
out they just press fit sometimes they're soldered
so now that we've got the power supply out the
first thing that we can see is that it's rather
discolored so this thing certainly gets very hot
during operation which is no surprise seeing as
it's a dirt cheap product but there's no obvious
skid marks nothing's catastrophically exploded
everything looks reasonably good no broken
solar joints that i can immediately see
on the other side there's
some pretty basic components
here we see the capacitor is actually 125 degrees
rated so that's good no bulging the capacitor
is an AiSHi brand which is pretty good actually
this inductor is marked 4.0 brackets
0.6 so i imagine that's probably four
micro-henries at 600 milli-amps that
seems a bit much but it's probably correct
so i think the very first thing to do
will be to test this here fusible resistor
just to make sure it has continuity and testing
it yep it has continuity it's a couple of ohms
so i'd say this is good and that means something
hasn't catastrophically failed short circuit
now testing this diode bridge we expect to see
some diode drops in some directions and in other
directions not so testing that there's a diode
drop and a diode drop and the other way around
from the negative side dia drop yep now the
next thing in the circuit before that large bulk
400 volt capacitor is this here inductor which
probably has something to do with the power factor
and measuring that for continuity pretty sure i've
got a good contact here but it's it's measuring
like millions of ohms um yeah i'm definitely
making good contact so i think this inductor might
be bad now looking at the inductor we can actually
see that there's some cracking on the top here
so i'd imagine this thing has been thermal cycled
a few too many times and something inside of it
has gone wrong or maybe it's just underrated and
something has melted inside and we can also see on
the bottom here there's some more cracking so yeah
this inductor isn't happy so i'm just
going to remove that now the color code on this
inductor says it's a three milli-henry inductor
that's 10% rated i had a look through my junk box
and i couldn't find a similar thing although i
had this larger 10 milli-henry inductor and it's
physically larger as well so i reckon that'll do
i don't really know what this thing's rated for
in terms of current but i imagine it's probably
good enough for this application and just
putting that back in place soldering it together
and then putting this thing
back together not too difficult
and then i put it back in the fixture and turned
it on and we can see it works perfectly now
so that inductor was definitely faulty and i also
had a look at it with the thermal camera and it
didn't look too bad i mean it gets pretty hot but
i imagine it's designed like that so i just put
the diffuser back on and it should be good to go
now this inductor here that's failed i'm actually
quite interested to see how it's failed i'm not
sure if some of the windings have overheated and
fused together or something and it's i don't know
exploded inside maybe or if it's just a thermal
cycle thing and some of the wires have broken or
something so i think it's a good opportunity to
do some more advanced failure analysis on this
so i'm going to prepare some two-part epoxy here
and i'm just going to mix that together mix it
mix and mix it and then of course once i think
i've mixed it i mix it some more otherwise it
turns out rubbish and then putting the inductor
in and mixing it around to make sure all of
these surfaces are wetted and then i put that
on a little hot plate i made for a couple hours
and here i'm just going to crank it up to max
all right it's been about three
hours and i've let this thing
bake for a while as well as cool down and in
hindsight i think i roasted it a little bit
too much as it's formed quite a few bubbles and
has discolored a little bit however that doesn't
really matter in this application we can also
see actually that there's some bubbles that have
formed around the cracks so yeah i wonder if
some of the epoxy is gone in there and some of
the air is escaped and that's where some of these
bubbles are coming from as well now to start off
i'm just going to use some 220 grit sandpaper
and i'm just going to go to town on it and i'm
going to get through the first layer and here we
can start to see some of the construction of it
looks to be a whole heap of fine
wire wound around a ferrite core
now that we've got more of it off we can
start to see some more detail in how this
thing's manufactured can't see any obvious
melted sections it all looks pretty good
now i'm going to grind it down to the very center
so that we can have a look at how this thing has
its leads constructed because i'm not actually
sure how they put the leads in this thing
and now i'm at about the center so i'm going
to go to 2000 grit paper and wet sand it
and then go to 3000 and sort of polish it
so now it's nice and polished we can take a look
at it and oh yeah so this is how they do it so it
looks like they wrapped the wires around the lead
here and solder it together and then they sort of
glue the uh lead into the end and the end of it
has been formed and we can see the interface here
between the ferrite and the lead and we can also
see right here where that crack is and we can see
on the outside of the device as well where that
crack was so it looks like that crack has formed
around where the wire comes off the lead and goes
around to the actual windings so i suspect one of
these cracks has broken that wire and that's
why it's gone open circuit so that pretty
much solves the mystery as to why this thing's
broken unfortunately i didn't get a smoking gun
picture of exactly where it's cracked but i think
that shows pretty much where it's happened so i'll
just leave you with some nice pictures of that
cross section so as always thanks for watching